---
priority: 100
---

import DocsWrapper from '@/src/docs/DocsWrapper'

# Why Upload A Model

### Ensure Policy Compliance

As a model developer your primary motivation for uploading a model to Bailo is to make it available within a governance
framework that **ensures technical quality and legal and policy compliance**. Bailo provides this by requiring all
uploaded models to pass both a technical review and an assessment by a senior responsible officer with respect to
organisation objectives, legal requirements and policy guidelines. It further ensures that models and deployments remain
compliant by enforcing review actions on deadline lifecycle dates identified in the model card when uploading the model.

### Allow Model Sharing

Developing, training and testing ML models is a resource intensive process. The manual effort and time required is often
significant and there is usually a high computational cost and an increasing requirement for specialist hardware. It is
therefore important to **encourage the re-use of existing models**, even when they range across multiple use-cases. In a
large organisation it is particularly important to capitalise on the work of disparate teams and to avoid the
duplication of effort that occurs when these teams develop models in isolation that address similar requirements.

Bailo addresses the issue of duplicated effort by providing users with a _central searchable repository_ for ML models
that have been approved for operational use. Each candidate model is uploaded with a model card that provides
information about its purpose and details about its provenance, the data used for training, any known limitations and
bias. This information is used during the approval process but is then made available within the model marketplace.
Exposing this information allows users to assess whether a pre-existing model is suitable for re-use within their
particular context.

### Share Best Practices

Re-using existing models **encourages the awareness and adoption of best-practice** and tends to improve the quality of
models over time. However, the Bailo service imposes a quality gate in the form of an approval process by a model
technical reviewer. Uploaded models do not become visible to users until they have passed both this technical review and
a subsequent review by a senior responsible officer. The technical review assesses the technical aspects of the model
whilst the policy review assesses the suitability of the model with respect to mission objectives, as well as the manner
in which the model developer has addressed legal requirements and adhered to policy guidelines.

### Notes

Although the policy review includes a legal and other assessments, this approval cannot be regarded as permanent and
needs to be repeated. The frequency of these subsequent reviews is dependent upon many factors, such as the volatility
of the data on which the model acts or changes in the operational environment.

The metadata associated with a model includes information about how often a model must be retrained and reviewed, and
includes the reasoning behind these respective frequencies. It also provides a date by which the model should be
considered obsolete and retired. Users who request a deployment are made aware of the importance of these lifecycle
events at the point of request, as are model contributors.

At present the management of these lifecycle events is manual but the intention is that in future these will be handled
through a monitoring and notification mechanism.

export default ({ children }) => <DocsWrapper>{children}</DocsWrapper>
